hello i'm keith kendrick magazine's
editor of bbc good food and i'm here
with food writer
alyssa tumashkina who features in our
good food world in your kitchen video
series
demonstrating a remarkable siberian
pelmeni dumplings recipe
today though she's going to tell us
three things we need to know
about russian cooking hi alyssa so talk
us through it
what's the first thing we need to know
about russian cooking
hi keith the first thing you would need
to know is that it's very seasonal
and that it really does celebrate the
different four seasons and our
calendars change that way with food
and so what essential ingredients are
there in russian cooking
i'd say the first thing that comes to
mind is dill
it's a really quintessential russian
herb and i know that here in england we
tend to shy away from it only thinking
that
dill is used for fish but actually in
russian cooking
it's used for so many different dishes
and so many different occasions
with fish of course but my favorite way
to use it is to blend it with butter and
garlic and then use that to dress your
roast potatoes or just
boil new potatoes this is delicious and
then to sprinkle it on top of stews
chop it into salads just a simple
cucumber and greek yogurt salad with
lots of dill in it
and it just brings such a beautiful
vibrancy and freshness to any
any dish and i would say if you want to
make any food that you're cooking
taste a bit more russian then just
sprinkle some dill on top
what kind of characteristics that does
dill have what's its flavor reminiscent
of do you describe it
um to me it kind of smells like that
the fresh cut grass that has this really
herbaceous greenness to it
it's a little bit bitter but it also has
a sweetness to it
and it's just yeah to me it's just
freshness like does the scent of dill
immediately makes everything so feel so
light and fresh
fantastic so uh tell us a couple of
of typical authentic russian dishes that
people
who are watching this could could cook
at home
um i absolutely love a dish called she
it's a soup more of a kind of a stew
soup
and again it changes with the season you
can make it in the summer
or autumn or winter really um
the main ingredient is sauerkraut so
fermented cabbage
but also you use lots of wild mushrooms
and potatoes and then you can make a
meat broth or a vegetarian broth and
it's a very hearty
um essentially it only has like three or
four ingredients but because of the
sauerkraut
it adds this really complex tang to it
and then the flavor just kind of keeps
evolving and actually it's amazing
because you can make a big batch but
because of the sauerkraut
it stays um kind of fresh for a really
long time so it can live in your fridge
for almost a week
and the flavor keeps developing and
developing even more
so it's it's such a perfect way to kind
of feed the whole family for the whole
week
i love it it sounds perfect and is there
a typical
kind of russian meal time ritual is
there
an occasion is that is there some kind
of order of eating things you know
yeah i think the main thing that um
for like i love the most is this idea of
feasting that you would
almost like a mezze you would bring lots
of dishes out at the same time
so there is no kind of order in that
sense and
it creates a really lovely kind of
plentiful experience
it's it's super simple food but it's
just all about kind of
that sense of abundance at the table and
the other thing really is toasting
i know there's a bit of a cliche that
russians like drinking
but it's not just kind of mindless
drinking it really has a tradition of
toasting
and you know whenever there's an
alcoholic beverage at the table
you would never just drink it on your
own you would always wait you know
there's a certain order to things and
you would always toast together with
everyone else
and one person would make you know a
meaningful toast either thanking the
host or thanking
i don't know you know some special
person in their life so it's a really
lovely
tradition that kind of makes you reflect
a little bit and kind of
be in the moment and be grateful for the
food that you're having
or just toasting the toast it's uh
that's you know any reason to toast it's
a great idea
i'm interested in those pell many
dumplings that you uh that you demo on
the
on the world in your kitchen video
series i've always thought dumb things
have been quite fiddly but
you made them look very easy is this
something that people should
should try oh i'm glad you said that
um absolutely it really is such another
national staple that
every household would make and they
would always make it in big batches
because it's
it's fun to make it's actually very easy
it might look more complicated or you
know from reading the instructions and
the recipe you might feel oh gosh
there's so many steps
and so many ingredients but actually
once you have your production line
it's it really is the most simple but
also the most therapeutic thing to make
and um i started making it a lot more
since i got my cookbook out
and it really has become one of my
favorite things to
make at home it's fantastic i'm
definitely going to give them a go
because i absolutely love dumplings but
i've never
i've never mastered them and i thought
the way you demonstrated them was
yeah i can do that so i'm going to give
those brilliant as they go
thank you so much for joining us it's
been an absolute pleasure and an
education talking to you
um don't forget to check out elisa's
demo
on good foods world in your kitchen and
for more
amazing recipes she's got a cookbook out
it's called salt and thyme
i think you're also working on another
one as well alyssa
and follower on instagram at alyssa
tomushkina
thank you for joining me thank you for
having me thank you so much